It is important to understand what type of data is generated by data producer.
This influences our decisions around how it needs to be processed and stored.
You are a pro at entity and even data now,
let us explore another way of looking at data.
We haven't learned what a structured,
semi-structured, and unstructured data is.
Structured data, as the name suggest,
it has structure to it.
Structured data is quantitative data,
these are facts and numbers that can be collected,
exported, stored, and organized to run analysis on,
and follows a model designed by database engineer.
Entity data stored in rows and columns in a table is a structured data.
Entities are grouped together to form relations,
due to this, it is easy to store, query, and analyze.
Structured Query Language is often used to manage structured data.
A good example will be transactions stored in that oil DB.
Semi-structured data.
It has some structure to it.
Semi-structured data does not conform to relational databases such as Excel or SQL,
but has some level of organization like tags, consider HTML.
It does not limit the amount of information in a document but has a hierarchy.
With some processing, it can be stored in a relational database.
NoSQL databases are used for semi-structured data.
Few more examples of semi-structured data will be CSV,
XML, and JSON format data from flat files or APIs.
Unstructured data.
It does not have any structure.
Finally, unstructured data is qualitative data, example, customer reviews.
What customers are saying is important,
but there is no easy way to run analytics on those comments.
So unstructured data does not follow a model and cannot be stored in row,
or column, or in relational format.
Data lakes or NoSQL technologies are used to store such data.
Some examples of unstructured data will be audio, video, PDFs, etc.